# [johncuysal.com](https://johncuysal.com)

My website!

- [Common actions](#common-actions)
  - [How to edit an existing page](#how-to-edit-an-existing-page)
  - [How to create a new page](#how-to-create-a-new-page)
- [Navigating this repository](#navigating-this-repository)
  - [`css/`](#css)
  - [`fonts/`](#fonts)
  - [`html/`](#html)
  - [`html-templates/`](#html-templates)
  - [`images/`](#images)
  - [`json/`](#json)
  - [`markdown/`](#markdown)
  - [`scripts/`](#scripts)
  - [`.cpanel.yml/`](#cpanelyml)
  - [`generator.py`](#generatorpy)

## Common actions

### How to edit an existing page

1. Navigate to the page's corresponding folder in [`markdown/`](#markdown).
2. Edit the `index.md` file in that folder.
3. Run [`generator.py`](#generatorpy).

### How to create a new page

1. Create a folder in [`markdown/`](#markdown). Its name and location within the folder structure will determine the URL of the new page.
2. Write the new page's content in Markdown and save it as an `index.md` file in that folder.
3. Add a new entry to `websites.json` or `games.json` if the new page is about a website or game.
4. Run [`generator.py`](#generatorpy).

## Navigating this repository

### `css/`

Contains CSS stylesheets. Right now, there's just one:

- `styles.css` — used by all pages

### `fonts/`

Contains font files in `.eot`, `.ttf`, `.woff`, and `.woff2` formats.

### `html/`

Contains all the HTML documents generated by [`generator.py`](#generatorpy). These are ready to be deployed to my website.

When [`generator.py`](#generatorpy) runs, this folder gets cleared and rewritten, mirroring the current structure of the [`markdown/`](#markdown) folder.

**It is not recommended to directly edit any files in this folder.**

### `html-templates/`

Contains HTML templates used by [`generator.py`](#generatorpy) to build the HTML documents that are placed in the [`html/`](#html) folder.

- `page-template.html` — base template for all pages
- `postcard-template.html` — used on special pages

### `images/`

Contains image files in PNG and SVG formats.

- `umbrella.svg` — used as website favicon
- `signature.svg` — used as header image

### `json/`

Contains JSON files used by [`generator.py`](#generatorpy).

- `games.json`
- `websites.json`

### `markdown/`

Contains the written content of all pages as Markdown files. These are not deployed to my website.

This folder is read by [`generator.py`](#generatorpy) to build the  HTML documents that populate the [`html/`](#html) folder. The entire structure of this folder gets copied over, with [`generator.py`](#generatorpy) processing each `index.md` it finds into a corresponding `index.html`.

**To change the written content of this website, edit the files here and run [`generator.py`](#generatorpy).**

**Markdown files should not include any placeholders or HTML tags. They must be publishable as-is.**

### `scripts/`

Contains JavaScript files. There's only one for now:

- `main.js` — used by all pages

### `.cpanel.yml`

Configuration file used by cPanel to deploy files from this repository to my website. Here's a rough outline of the structure I'm going for:

- [`css/`](#css)
  - `styles.css`
- [`fonts/`](#fonts)
  - `...`
  - `Lato-Regular.woff2`
  - `...`
- [`images/`](#images)
  - `...`
  - `signature.svg`
  - `...`
- [`scripts/`](#scripts)
- `index.html`
- `about/`
  - `index.html`
- `contact/`
  - `index.html`
- `games/`
  - `index.html`
  - `...`
  - `robot-story/`
    - `index.html`
  - `...`
- `websites/`
  - `index.html`
  - `...`
  - `a-good-scheduler/`
    - `index.html`
  - `discretopia/`
    - `index.html`
  - `...`

[`html-templates/`](#html-templates), [`json/`](#json), [`markdown/`](#markdown), and [`generator.py`](#generatorpy) (and of course this `README.md`) don't get uploaded to my website. They're only used within this project folder to build the HTML documents my website uses.

### `generator.py`

Python script used to build HTML documents from Markdown files.

By running it, a new HTML document will be generated for each Markdown file in the [`markdown/`](#markdown) folder. These HTML documents are deposited into the [`html/`](#html) folder, mirroring the structure of the [`markdown/`](#markdown) folder with new folders created as necessary.

Specifically, each Markdown file is processed like this:

1. **Convert Markdown to HTML.** The Markdown file's content is broken up into Markdown blocks, which are individually converted to equivalent HTML elements.
2. **Apply special rules.** Depending on the Markdown file's path, the newly converted HTML content could be further processed. For example, certain HTML elements which have no Markdown equivalents might be added using HTML templates and JSON files, or, some HTML elements might be removed.
3. **Fill out the base template.** The HTML content, after the conversion from Markdown and the application of all relevant special rules, is directly substituted into the base template for all pages, `page-template.html`. Additional information, like the page's title and path, have already been obtained from previous steps, and are used to fill out all the base template's placeholders.
4. **Deposit the result.** The filled-out page template is placed in [`html/`](#html), within a folder structure based on the original Markdown file's path.

**Running this script overwrites files in the [`html/`](#html) folder.**
